---
title: 19. Intentional communities
subtitle: An urban alternative to individualism
description: An overview of intentional communities and how they can be used to re-orient urban life towards the community
---


Decentralised Autonomous Organisations are organisations that are __governed by an algorithm__, rather than a hierarchy of human beings. They establish trust between people who don’t know each other, allowing them to pool resources for a shared cause.

Here's [Binance's](https://research.binance.com/en/analysis/dao-theory) definition of a DAO:

> _An organizational form that coordinates the efforts and resources of members via an a priori binding, formalized and transparent set of rules that are agreed upon in a multilateral fashion_

## What are they used for?
For the first time, they allow large groups of people to pool resources and __make decisions as a *group* in a transparent way__. Here is a small subset of use cases:
- __Research__ - crowdfunding research into underfunded causes people care deeply about
- __Charity__ - coordinating large charitable projects (e.g. building wells or distributing food), or simply allocating funds to existing charities
- __Arts__ - fans [collectively](https://decrypt.co/63080/an-ad-for-uniswap-just-sold-for-525000-as-an-nft-heres-why) owning their favourite artist’s work
- __Commercial__ - a common use of current DAOs is for coordinating investments into private projects, but many people see DAOs as the LLCs of the future. Chris Dixon [suggested](https://www.joincolossus.com/episodes/22848496/dixon-the-potential-of-blockchain-technology) DAOs could even be used to fund an alternative smartphone, one that's owned by the people.

## How do they work?
Founders set up a vision and governance structure, and then members can join by buying tokens (or voting rights). Once a DAO has been launched, it’s completely __independent of its creators__. Members submit proposals to allocate capital or to change the governance structure. The proposals are then voted<sup>1</sup> on by the members. The final step of many proposals is to do something in the real world. __In this case, a contractor is hired for the implementation__. This appointment is done through a similar voting process.

There are two defining aspects of this type of organisation:
1. __Autonomous__ - when conditions are met, a smart contract is executed. The organisation’s administrative burden is reduced thanks to the autonomy built into the system
2. __Decentralised__ - this refers to the political nature of the organisation, as well as the physical distribution of hardware. __DAOs run on blockchains__ (I’ve avoided using the word until now)

## Some closing thoughts
DAOs are still early in their history, and many focus on DeFi and general blockchain projects. For example, The [LAO](https://thelao.io/) is a __for-profit DAO that invests in blockchain startups__ and gives members access to the returns. Their [documentation]9https://docs.thelao.io/) page is a good example of a DAO’s governance structure.

One of the major benefits of a DAO is ensuring consensus amongst members. __Consensus isn't always good__. Yes, it allows everyone's voice to be heard, but this doesn’t always lead to the best decisions - __sometimes you need a visionary leader to make bold decisions__. Another important point: __just as DAO's can be used to coordinate good, they can also be used to coordinate evil.__

Going forward, I’d expect DAOs to remove intermediaries from many industries (e.g. in financial institutions, charities) but I’m still to be convinced that they can replace a lean, innovative corporation that needs to move fast and take bold leaps. __Innovation often comes from very small [teams](https://stevepulec.com/posts/small/)__<sup>2</sup>, whereas DAOs are mainly useful in coordinating large groups of people who don’t know each other.

-----
1. There will, of course, be mechanisms in place to avoid manipulation of votes (i.e by ensuring that no single entity has a disproportionate amount of the vote)
2. e.g. WhatsApp only had 55 employees when Facebook acquired them for $55bn

### Sign up to my blog here
<div
  style="text-align:center;width:100%;">
<iframe src="https://taariq.substack.com/embed" width="350" height="150" style="border:1px solid #EEE; background:white; margin: 0 auto; dislay: block;" frameborder="0" scrolling="no"></iframe>

</div>
